so if your goal is to be a top performer
that means that
what you do
is determined
by the crappiness of the other
performers
all right so
why am i unable to be content with
anything
as the title suggests i recently come to
the realization that i have a habit of
ruining good things in my life because i
become discontent with them
for years i've worked
in commission sales
environments and have actually left the
same job multiple times for no real
reason
i have a job where i can easily be a top
performer and make over 100k a year with
minimal effort however i always fall
into the same mindset of beginning to
hate the job for no real reason
and i do things in the job that get me
in trouble on purpose debate them into
firing me what is wrong with me i do not
work excessive hours at the job and it
is beyond easy for my skill set and i'm
still unhappy with it
this has been this has happened at
multiple other jobs i've had as well i
will become very good at whatever job it
may be lose interest and then
self-sabotage my way out of it
this sort of behavior follows outside of
work too hobbies for example result in
the same way whether it is guitar a
specific video game video editing every
interest i've ever had results in me
becoming good at something quickly then
sabotaging my way out of it
i once got into power lifting
obsessively it was all i ate slept and
breathed for multiple years i became the
strongest guy in the gym without even
being the biggest then one day just
snapped and i stopped going and carrying
all together ruining my health in the
process
even in video games i follow the same
trend i'm league of legends in in league
of legends for example
i will one trick a single champion until
i get to diamond and then i will
completely lose interest and start
hinting games down to gold or platt
because i lost the passion to get better
i am now 26 years old and i feel as
though i've come to a point where i have
nothing to show for myself in life
because i cannot keep a passion for
anything
i'm in addition i have no desire to work
play video games or exist anymore i'm
not suicidal and do not have suicidal
thoughts but i also do not particularly
enjoy life apologies if this is
long-winded but tldr i've never been
able to be content with anything and i
have pretty much nothing for me to look
forward to in life anymore which makes
me feel like i'm just treading water for
the sake of drinking water
so
this is a case
that is very important is a very
important post and here's the reason why
this post is very important so what i
want to talk to you all about today
is
what i would call
the
i don't know if this is the right word
but almost like the in-between people
okay
so this is a case of someone who
is able to grind really hard right so
like
and get
become successful in something and then
ends up like abandoning it or sabotaging
it so the first thing to understand is
that in our community we tend to have
two groups of people or we tend to talk
about two groups of people one is the
i'm going nowhere in life this is your
you know your neat person your
hikikomori nene person like i'm 24 i
play video games all day like uh like
how do i get a job how do i find love
like how do i socialize like so we have
this perception in our community that
like there's a lot of people who are
like this
at the opposite end of the spectrum we
have like someone else in our community
who's sort of the high performer right
so this is someone that we saw in our
high performance group high potential
group these are like engineers like
software programmers like other
successful people like sometimes
investment bankers and other randos in
our community professional poker players
like crypto
savants like all kinds of other people
in our community who are like successful
but the truth is that
halfway between those two things is what
i'd call like the halfway successful
person
and this person is is like not able to
i'd say like build a dynasty so they're
not able to let me kind of put it this
way okay so it one side we have the neat
right not in
no
employment
education
training
and then over here we have the what i
would call the dynasty builder
and what do i mean by dynasty so this is
a case of someone who has a success has
a success has a success and they build
on top of it
so over time like they're able to like
build a life right like i have a
successful career check i have a
successful relationship check i'm gonna
you know i i do i enjoy i have like good
family relationships check now i need to
figure out entertainment yes and then up
here is like dharma i need meaning
so these are our successful people over
here
the truth is that the majority of our
community is actually somewhere around
here and these are what i'd call the
half performers
so they're not like incapable of getting
jobs they're not incapable of forming
relationships but they're not able to
build on their successes and why is that
right what's going on with these people
so let's kind of go back to this
and
take a look so what do you guys think
motivates this per person
right so what do you all see so it's not
self sabotage
so self self-sabotage
they're motivated towards self-sabotage
but what motivates this person what do
you guys think
okay this is really interesting right so
now people are saying
progress they're saying improvement
they're saying the grind
they're saying validation very good
right so let let's take a look at this
post
what do we see here top performer
right
um
let's look at this
i've become very good
okay
uh and then let's like
every interest i've had becomes becoming
good at something quickly
quickly skill up
so now what we're going to do is i'm
going to move this thing over here so
i've been taking some notes
so we can see that what motivates this
person is a sense of progress
improvement grind validation wanting to
be at the top diamond so the other thing
that i want you guys to notice is that
many of this person's like their
language all involves comparison
so they use words like diamond
they use words like top they'll use
words like become the best become better
so fundamentally there's a lot of
comparison going on this will be like
this will become important in a second
but if we kind of think about it so this
person's saying like i don't understand
like i'm not motivated i sabotage things
incorrect
you have to understand that you're not
not motivated you're motivated by a
particular thing and what is this person
motivated by progress and improvement
so
this is kind of interesting because
people will say like people will assume
for example like the neets for example
will be like i can't get motivated to do
anything so i i i wish i was progress
oriented i wish i was growth oriented i
wish i could grind
right people
value or envy these qualities they wish
they could wanted to become very skilled
like think about how awesome this is
like for the neat they're like oh my god
this person can quickly skill up we had
a question earlier about someone being
stuck at 1k mmr and here's this person
who's like
able to get to the top and then they
self sabotage and whatever so it's kind
of interesting because actually what
this person is motivated by is what the
neets crave
okay
so then the question is like what's
going on here why do they abandon things
if they're motivated towards growth
so let's
i'm gonna draw you guys a curve
okay
so if this axis is effort
and this axis
is progress
what does this curve look like can you
all tell
what do you guys think
beginning is the easiest very good
exponential
yes
and there's an asymptote here
right
so this is the problem so what do you
guys think this person does so you may
look at this person you may say like oh
they're interested in games
they learn instruments
they find jobs
and they look at all these different
things and they're like i can do
anything for like one year bodybuilding
so what's going on here what's going on
is they're on
this curve right so like let's this is
the bodybuilding so they start here
i get to the strongest person in the gym
and then
there's a gap right so they hit the
exponential phase of the curve
and so now what happens is the more
effort they put in the less gain they
get
because this is what's rewarding
everyone wants progress right so now
what they end up doing is they're like
oh at this point their brain is making a
calculation
that at this point now i'm in the red
zone which means that i have to put in a
bunch of effort to get a very little
yield
so then what their brain does is oh
let's like switch let's start playing
wall
oh here we go oh that's some good [ __ ]
oh ooh look at all like look at because
i'm kind of a chad and i can like focus
and i can be motivated and look at how
much
effort i have to expend i have to expend
very little effort to make a lot of
progress and as soon as they get good at
something
they decide to abandon it so this is the
problem of like a lack of a of a
dynasty builder
right because at some point what their
brain just tells them is hey instead of
investing like because notice they just
get to diamond right they're not getting
the challenger
right they say they're the top performer
they're making 100k a year they're not
making a million
so they're never actually becoming the
best at something
they're just getting like decently good
they work until they hit somewhere along
this point in the curve
and then their mind is like oh it'll be
easier if we just switch gears to
something else because then we can get
that sweet sweet progressium
addicted to the grind absolutely and so
they get stuck in this place
right you guys see that and so this is
why this person hops and so if you want
to understand the self-sabotage it's
like self-sabotage is an easy way to
quit you guys get that because if they
quit what ends up happening is they'll
feel bad they'll be like oh i'm a
quitter but hey chat
this is progressium i'm not a quitter so
what i'm gonna do is gonna get fired and
then i have a reason i have an excuse to
okay like i just got fired from my job
let me be positive let me be growth
oriented okay i'm gonna start
bodybuilding and you see i'm not like
those other losers that just like sits
around and like
like oh my god no i'm gonna like do
something with my life
and so then they they pick the next
thing and then then what happens is like
they get kind of they don't get bored
with it what happens is they get to this
phase of the the curve
where effort does not
yield a lot of gain
and so they switch to something else
so now the question is okay what do we
do about this and this is the key thing
it's about comparison okay so if you
want to understand how to break out of
this the first thing you've got to do is
first of all have an awareness of this
curve and start to ask yourself
questions like
you know why am i self-sabotaging is
this the point at which i feel like
effort
does not equal
reward right
is this the phase that i'm getting at is
this what determines what triggers the
self-sabotage
because what i'm noticing in this person
is that like you guys get that what's
motivating this person is not a love for
any of these things
they're not actually getting motivated
by like wanting to play league they're
not getting motivated about wanting to
be healthy they're not getting motivated
for the love of the thing at all
all they're getting motivated for is
this
let's see
becoming good at something
okay i became the strongest guy
so it's about comparison it's about
rising above people and then i stopped
caring and going at all
you know i'll single trick champion i
get to diamond it's so it's all about
achievement comparison and like ranking
against other people
so this is a problem of ego okay so
there are a couple of things you can do
here so the first
is you know ask yourself what motivates
you
so really as you are doing any one of
these activities
start to ask yourself
you know like what is it that in what do
i enjoy about this why is this no longer
fun for me
and
it's not just looking here because what
the person is looking at is they're
focusing on this phase right
this is another problem in terms of how
to learn
what we always look at in humans is the
area that we make mistakes
because this is broken
but if we really want to understand
ourselves we have to look at this part
too so you know when are things going
good
right so you need to examine that like
what motivates me right now like why do
i want to be the best power lifter in
the gym
like what appeals to me about this it's
not just about the quitting
it's about
the positive motivation as well so you
can ask questions like what feels good
about it
okay
and so you can start to do internal
exploration you can do this with a coach
with a therapist as well
all right so i'd say the atman if this
is a problem that y'all struggle with
check out the atman pada so the atman
pada is the path of self in
dr k's guide to meditation
also for people for the last one if you
feel like you've fallen behind there's
uh there's a video there's some stuff in
the depression guide about like this
concept of falling behind and how to get
past that
so you can do these kinds of things and
then the other thing that i'm going to
teach you is
a meditation so the other thing is that
comparison is about ego right so the
other thing is that this person wants to
be better than other people
so as long as like you being better than
other people is your primary driver
what you do is going to be fundamentally
controlled by other people do you all
understand this
so we're going to switch gears for a
second and kind of like talk about ego
for a second
so if your goal is to be a top performer
that means that
what you do
is determined
by the crappiness of the other
performers
it has nothing to do with like
objective skill in a thing it's just
wanting to be the best
so if i if i'm motivated by being the
best and i'm in a math class with six
year olds i'm not going to learn much
math right
if i want to be
the strongest in a class and i'm in a
class with six-year-olds it's not gonna
motivate me at all to like work
right like i'm not gonna work out i
don't need to work out i'm fighting
against six-year-olds i'm racing against
six-year-olds i'm playing basketball
against six-year-olds like so this
concept of like ego and wanting to be
the best fundamentally causes you to
lose control over your life
it's a huge problem
because then your perception
of like you being the best is ultimately
what motivates you that means it's not
internal motivation it's external
motivation
okay so then the question is like how do
we get rid of this ego so the ego is
also comparative things like that
there's stuff in the in the meditation
guide about a hum god in vedic
psychology you guys should definitely
watch that if this is interesting to you
so what do you do about this so this is
where i'm going to teach you guys about
shunya
so shunya is
null void or zero and this is kind of
weird so shunya was discovered in in
india so people will historians will
sort of credit india with the discovery
of zero
but the interesting thing is that zero
was not discovered
by like mathematicians in india it was
discovered by yogis
so what happened is like yogis like
will meditate for a while and they
discovered like the concept
of nullness void or zero like the
absence of things and what they the way
that they essentially discovered the
concept of absence of things is through
explorations of their identity what
yogis essentially did is they like sat
down and they tried to figure out who am
i so they noticed okay there's this
thing called the ego which likes to
compare so like some of my identity is
based on comparison to other people i'm
tall i'm short
so when people identify with qualities
like tall and short do you guys get that
like
you can't be tall or short unless other
people existed
the whole word tall or the whole word
short
has within its concept a comparison to
something else you guys get that
so in that way
all of the qualities that we
use to describe ourselves are
fundamentally comparative so even
concepts like gender so male or female
like male doesn't mean anything if there
is not a female female doesn't mean
anything if there isn't a male finger
doesn't mean anything unless there's a
toe toe doesn't mean anything unless
there's a finger
so all of these concepts are comparative
by nature
so what the yogis essentially discovered
through meditation is that there is a
sense of nullness or void and that this
is like a primary quality of existence
and this is where like the meditation
stuff gets kind of weird so people want
to understand like
what is om
people will say like people will say
it's it's the fundamental sound of the
universe
or the fundamental vibration of the
universe like what on earth does that
mean and this is where things get like
kind of really off the rails is when you
do shunya meditation you will see shunya
in things it's kind of hard to describe
but like i would say you know there are
these big level concepts which are like
so let me give just give you guys an
example so one is like energy so energy
is like a high level concept like you
can see energy in different places you
there's like gravitational potential
energy there is electrical energy there
is like magnetic energy like energy is
like a big thing right it's like a high
level concept and so in that way shunya
is another like high level concept
energy and null are like two very
different things they're not like in the
same ballpark at all so what the yogi's
essentially figured out is that there's
like a set of like basic qualities in
the universe so one is like the energy
principle one is this concept of null or
shunya
one is um what's another example of like
oh another one is duality so duality is
like another example of like a broad
level thing that can't be compared to
energy but it's just the fact that like
two things exist
and that duality is essentially false so
tall and short is another good example
right so like you as human beings we can
group the world into like division like
we can divide things so we can say that
something is tall something is short
something is red something's green this
person has black hair this person is old
young so our mind divides the world into
duality so duality is like sort of a
fundamental quality not really of the
world but that's a little bit
complicated but do you guys get how like
shunya
um
energy and duality are like three
different buckets that don't really
relate to each other
so what the yogis essentially did is
discovered these like fundamental
different buckets and there's a limited
number of them so what are all the
buckets these all of these buckets
became the mantras that they said so
there's like one mantra for energy
there's one mantra for duality there's
one mantra for shunya these are like
fundamental qualities of existence and
then under the common element that binds
all of these things together is om and
how do you understand that it's like you
do the shunya meditation you do the
energy meditation you do the duality
meditation and then you actually
discover oh there's like
existence
threads between all three of these
things
right so like there is some amount of
existence in all three of these things
so even if it's duality even it's shunya
even if it's like
energy there's like something exists
and so that's when people said oh that
quality of existence is something that
we're going to call ohm
so that's when people say like om is the
fundamental like vibration of existence
what that literally means is like it's
the quality of that which exists
so if someone's saying
i'm so confused i apologize i told he
would go off the rails so these are
things that if you really want to
understand it's not like a logical
understanding it's a like subjective
experience that you'll understand so i'm
going to teach you guys a shunya
meditation so if you really want to
understand this stuff you have to do
this meditation and then you will start
to
experience the void for lack of a better
term okay
and then like once you like experience
it like then you'll get it
right it's it's kind of yeah
okay
so we're gonna do shunya meditation all
right
so i want you guys to sit up straight
this is not in the guide
so there's some stuff but shunya is not
in the guide i don't think anyway maybe
a little bit
okay you can take headphones off it's
fine
all right so what i want y'all to do is
sit up straight
okay
close your eyes
and the first thing that i want you to
do is just notice
whatever your senses are picking up
outside of you
so even if you want to you can open your
eyes briefly
but i want you to notice that for
example you're able to hear sounds right
so like listen to the sound of my voice
or even with your eyes closed like reach
out in front of you and like maybe touch
the desk
you know touch something
and just notice that like this object
exists without outside of you right so
just feel it and kind of notice that
this thing is out here
but
i am the one that is experiencing
whatever the sensory input is so i'm the
one who's doing the touching and the
object is the thing that gets touched
right i am the listener and there are
sounds outside so there's the outside
world which is sending sensory input
into you
so take a moment to touch an object
around you
listen to the sound of my voice
maybe notice the smell
and that fundamentally there are things
outside you and your sensory organs are
the entry point of things outside you to
within you
i know it sounds kind of basic but like
recognize that that which you touch is
not part of you right you just
you just have contact with it
the words that you hear are not part of
you they you simply have contact with
them
and now what we're going to do is focus
on
the sensory apparatus
so notice that you have ears that are
capable of hearing
right so we're not going to focus on the
sound itself or my words
but just the fact that you're able to
hear
so where do you do the hearing
what is your experience of hearing
if you're using the sense of touch
as you touch notice that the sensations
that you feel are not the table
you don't actually feel the table what
you feel is you touching the table
that there are tactile sensors within
your fingers
that will fear feel pressure
and warmth or cold or temperature
and that's not actually the object it is
your perception of the object
and so what i want you to do is push
lightly against an object near you
and feel the sensation across your
fingers
rob an object around you and once again
feel the sensation across your fingers
and now what i want you to do
is go even one layer deeper
and notice that even without touching
something so relax your hands maybe fold
them in your lap
adopt a mudra if you prefer
and notice that your fingers and hands
generate signals
without any external contact
so now we've left the external world
completely behind
and notice that your hands have a
proprioceptive sense
which means you can tell where they are
in space
you can feel where your hands are
whether they're above your head in your
lap
you know where your body is
and even without any kind of external
contact
your body generates signals
that tell you
where you are
you can know where your hands are you
can know where your fingers are because
they're sending you signals they're
letting you know hey i'm here hey i'm
here hey i'm here
and now i want you to travel up
your arms
so start with your hands
then focus on your forearms and notice
that your forearms
exist and then move up to your elbows
and now notice all the signals that your
body is sending you
and then up to your arms
and you may even feel uncomfortable like
moving if you want to you can go ahead
and move
and now up to your shoulders
and now into the chest
or upper abdomen
this is where the practice becomes
difficult
so if you are a veteran meditator this
may be accessible to you
if not you can just practice for this
next part
and so notice that the sensations in
your body
that there's a black box
kind of in the middle of your body
that you may feel hunger
or fullness in your stomach
and you may experience like some
sensation in the upper chest
around your lungs
but actually in the core of your being
notice that there's like a complete
absence of sensation
that there is something that sends you
no signals whatsoever it's just
the only way you can notice it's there
is because if you follow the sensations
of the body
they stop at some point
and in the core of your being there is a
hollowness
and now focus on that point
focus on that sensation
now ask yourself what is that
notice that your body and your mind
signal to you that they exist
either through the presence of thoughts
or physical sensations
but how is it that you can feel nothing
at the core of your being
and meditate upon that thing
practice for another minute or so
and now externalize your attention again
start to come out of that place
return to your body
go up the chest to the shoulders arms
elbows forearms fingers
listen to the sound of my voice
and notice that the world begins to
exist again
go ahead and come on back
all right so i'm going to ask y'all a
couple of questions if you really want
to understand shunya
so
first question is who was able to feel
shunya
okay so it's okay for not everyone to
feel it so now let me ask y'all a
question for those of you that were able
to feel shunya
the roshunya within
right
so tell me what is outside of you
where else can shunya be
right so if you understand what shunya
feels like
you will notice that
it is everywhere
so like
now you're starting to get it
because what the yogis essentially
discovered so when they say that reality
is false
and they call reality maya or illusion
that is fundamentally that can be
discovered if you want to understand why
reality is an illusion or this concept
of maya
do this shunya practice
because then you'll begin to see oh [ __ ]
none of this crap is real
right because it's shunya it's void it's
null
and then what happens
once you have that realization
everything that bothers you in the world
ceases to bother you
it's transformative
and then suddenly like these things that
used to restrict you like oh like
i want to be the best like the best is
not a real thing
it's
silly
right
and so this is how you become free of a
hum god
right it's like it's freeing so this is
why people call samadhi
or moksha freedom
enlightenment it's understanding and
with with the understanding comes the
freedom and the bliss
so this is the other weird thing is that
we think about in logic
happiness
knowledge
and freedom are like three dimensions
right those are not the same thing
like freedom and happiness are not part
of the same scale
like they're like three qualitatively
different things
but moksha is the place where all three
of these things meet
and if you want to understand that you
do this junior practice for those of you
i understand it's hard it's like an
advanced practice
but if you like understood that shunya
is on the outside you'll begin
begin to see like oh crap if it's scary
then you're doing it right
because what that means is like true
freedom and like happiness are like
there
you just have to pick them up
but you're not ready to and so then the
question becomes why aren't you ready to
pick it up what is it that holds you
back if you are scared of embracing
shunya
what is it that is frightened
very good right so some people get it
the ego
right so what wants to control the ego
wants to control shunya doesn't need to
control
the ego so for those of you that are
able to follow along
now you understand how the shunya
practice will dissolve your ego
because in order to embrace it you have
to let go of that which holds on
and then you get to detachment
you guys get that like that's like
people ask how do you detach this is how
you detach
but unless you understood the meditation
you're not going to understand i could
tell you guys time and time again here's
how you detach here's how you detach you
won't understand it like you're not
going to get it for those of you that
get it now you understand what that the
nature of attachment is if you want to
understand what attachment is it is that
which is terrified of shunya
does that make sense
no we're gonna do maybe one more
question
is it possible to be too detached
yes and no
the only thing that is concerned about
being too detached is the ego
so it's worried about being too detached
but so what
too detached means that you're measuring
it against something do you guys get
that
like what does it mean to be too
detached that means that there's an
appropriate level of attachment who
determines the appropriate level of
attachment the ego does because it's
like i want to be this detached you guys
get that because here's what's happening
in the ego the ego's like i want to be
detached enough to where i can be
successful in life and get the things
that i want to but i don't suffer
so there's a beautiful there's a perfect
level of detachment that's how spiritual
i want to be i want to be spiritual so i
can have all of my desires satisfied and
be like materialistic i want to use
spiritual growth
as a means to a materialistic end that's
what the ego does
right i want to meditate so i can get
promoted at work
i want to meditate so i experience less
anxiety i want to meditate so i don't
have social anxiety so i can meet
someone and get laid
it's all hijacking spirituality for its
own materialistic ends this is why the
world is filled with false spirituality
now
and the more that people have recognized
the value of meditation the worst this
problem has become
the ego isn't cancer
it's just that which shackles us
right and so like here's the big thing
are you okay being shackled
so
so how do we hold the shoe okay so
there's different questions here all
right
so one is like some of these are
questions from people who i think like
have understood it and some is like from
people who haven't quite understood
which is okay i'm not trying to say that
one is better than the other it just may
not be the meditation technique for you
right it's like not everyone is a mage
it's like here's a mage staff and if
people are into be like being a mage
they're like oh this is great for
fighters they're like trying to melee
people with their mage staff and they're
like
i don't understand this which is totally
fine no judgment right
so one is how do we hold the shunya
that's a good question you practice
holding the shunya is absolutely the
goal so this person has understood it
but why is spiritual growth even worth
it you haven't even addressed that yet
yeah
worth it means what worth it to whom
worth it for what end
worth implies like worth it for what
and so the answer is spiritual growth is
not worth it
because spiritual growth is not
interested in the it the the whole goal
of spiritual growth is to abandon the it
right to exist without a goal
so that that's like i haven't addressed
that because i can't it's not worth it
by definition it is what spirituality is
is letting go of things being worth it
okay so now this person is asking
doesn't the ego stop us from getting
into situations that will kill us
absolutely
so now we're going to take a page from
science okay
so ego is a universal experience of all
human beings
right
so why is that it's because the ego has
been selected for by evolution
ego is what helps us survive
so it's absolutely evolutionary like so
if we think about you know becoming
successful in life you want your ego
like the truly enlightened baby will
never become
well they'll still become successful
that's another paradox we'll get to in
another another day but
it is the chase for success that the ego
wants right and so like there's a reason
why it evolved it evolved because it
helps us survive
it has survival utility
but it doesn't have happiness utility
so ego helps us survive but doesn't make
us happy because we've evolved to not be
happy we've evolved to survive and this
is the core this is the core problem
with being a human being in the world
today is that this body in this brain
and this mind are not designed for
happiness they're designed for survival
and everyone is looking for happiness
using an instrument that was designed
for something else that's why it's hard
that's why spirituality is something
that you have to work towards
right because it's not like
it's like you know we're we're living
out of the back of our car it's not what
it was designed for the car was designed
for movement and here we are trying to
use it for something else
so this is the fundamental problem of
being human is that everything within
you is designed for survival it's not
designed for contentment or happiness
so now you have to decide like and
everyone's gonna have to make their own
journey in their own decision like what
do you want to chase do you want to
chase the ego or do you want to go ahead
and let it go
do you want to embrace shunya or do you
want to be successful
and it's a decision that every person
has to make
so this is the problem that buddha had
as he chased so this is buddha's
conclusion is that you can chase success
as much as you want to but it's never
going to get you anywhere because he
rose to the top
right he was like a king and powerful
and respected and lucky and wealthy
and he was like i'm still unhappy and so
he decided to choose happiness not
everyone has to choose happiness some
people choose power
totally fine it's your choice you decide
what is the purpose of the ego the ego
ego is a huge survival benefit
right it's like very very helpful that
way
why not both
uh yeah you can do you could try to do
both
can you choose both sure there's not the
the real answer is that it's not really
a choice it's like even that is like
it's hard to describe but like
it's shunya right it's all nothing so
there's no both there's neither
right so these are all constructions all
of these questions are coming from the
construction of an egotistical mind
right so like i'm totally fine like so
here's the problem we're going to get
back to regular stuff so i told you all
we're going to go off the rails today
so
this is the thing so like this is a
challenge we have it at healthy gamer
and hg is like do we go down this road
for the people who have been here for a
while right or do we do the same old
crap so we gotta like throw a bone to
the people who have been here for a
while and meditate on a regular basis
and stuff like that even if we lose
somebody all along the way which i
apologize like it you know
i can't if i'm teaching to 3 000 people
i can't have one thing that's effective
for everyone
right so this is some some cult level
stuff so what i would love to do is like
these are the kinds of things that
ideally are not taught on stream but
like if we ever do like a retreat
right some real cult stuff like we'll
have like ideally we'd have a retreat
for people who are long-term community
members and meditate on a regular basis
so we can do advanced topics
so the key point here is that the you
know if you've done the shunya
meditation you understood it then
continue doing it and then you will find
the answers to all these questions
and then if you didn't get it you're
like
what the hell is going on that's totally
fine please accept my apologies and
we'll get on to other things it's not
like some people so be careful about the
ego now so some of you may be thinking
oh i'm one of the ones who got it oh i'm
going to go to dr k's special retreat
and we inducted into the cult wonderful
that's ego too
right there's no better or worse it's
just different levels let's say just
like different people
right it's
already failed absolutely that's why i'm
pointing it out you guys get that it's
like you see how sneaky the ego is now
that we're active and you're not
meditating the ego will find its way in
some of y'all are going to be feeling
bad and some of y'all are going to be
feeling chad
right
but it's all ego
it's just what you are
you moved away from shunya if you're
feeling chad and you moved away from
shunya if you're feeling bad
have i managed to balance the ego at
spirituality
oh
that's such a good question
let me think about how i would describe
my experience
here is the way that i experience ego
so i have a garden and i try to grow
things in it and periodically like some
animals and stuff like rabbits and stuff
will come and eat all of my effort
that rabbit is my ego
occasionally i'll try to get things done
and then the ego shows up and like
torpedoes everything that i'm trying to
do but then like much like the rabbit
it you know it's just trying to live too
so
i can sigh and i can be like well that
sucks but at least the at least the
rabbit got to
eats these awesome
carrots and sweet potatoes
right
it's okay i have an ego
it gets the better of me many times
which it's gonna do
because i've decided that i'm not gonna
you know be a monk
so it's like that's the price that i pay
so it's okay it belongs it it deserves
to be there
all right
i see this chat amanzour
i see you the orc eye of sauron
so how do you know if it's the voice of
ego or it's the voice the good voice in
your head
with practice
you begin to see what the rabbit looks
like and then you can understand oh did
i do this or is this the rabbit
so remember that the the
so the the real goal is not to get rid
of your ego it's to be in control of
your ego
so your your ego should be like listen
to you instead of the other way around
you